---
date: 2020-01-20
title: Devlog 2 - Visiting the Canadian Museum of History's Resource Centre 

tags:
  - devlog
  - archives
  - archaeology
  - history museum
---
Today we visited the Canadian Museum of History's Resource Centre as a class. We meet some of the people who worked on the team, who were in charge of different areas of their catalogue work, such as audio / visual, artifacts, photographs, and textual collections. Prior to this visit I had no idea that the museum offered the public different services to access their collection, I guess because I have never taken a Canadian history course at the post-secondary level. 

Their database system seems rather interesting and I like that there are so many filtering options to search for whatever one may need. It definitely seems like a lot of work to maintain the database, and also continually update and ensure everything in the database is correct. I appreciated that they touched on settler - indigenous relations by updating band names according to what the nation prefers to call themselves. Those items are still searchable by the band’s old/incorrect name to make things easier for people to search.

My favourite part of the visit was the tour we were brought on after being informed of the museum’s services. We were able to see where museum professionals care for their artifacts. I had no idea how many different teams were required to manage such a collection. We went to visit a room that contained oversized objects and saw many indigenous-made canoes and kayaks, as well as other weird artifacts, like statues and even a hearse. 

The work that the museum would like us to help them with was briefly touched upon, but working on the cards found at Fort Frontenac seems really interesting, especially since it involves archaeology. I’m still leaning towards working with the Nature Museum but I’m curious to see how everything develops.  
